# 3A. Is an ADU allowable given the individual characteristics of the parcel?

### <mark style="background-color:orange;">Outstanding Questions (Copied to</mark> [<mark style="background-color:orange;">Proposed Next Steps</mark>](../../project-management/proposed-next-steps.md)<mark style="background-color:orange;">)</mark>

* [ ] How will the ordinance define parcel eligibility by parcel characteristics? A partial list is below, under Factors We Could Explore.

### Factors We Could Explore

* Minimum lot size (In State of Zoning for Accessory Dwelling Units)&#x20;
  * For reference, policy options from Ella on minimum lot size:&#x20;
    * No change: Same as underlying lot size&#x20;
    * Potential changes: &#x20;
      * ADU would not contribute to unit count for variable minimum lot size, for example in R-6&#x20;
      * If detached is allowed, increase minimum lot size to x square feet or by x%&#x20;
* Minimum lot frontage
  * For reference, policy options from Ella on minimum lot frontage:&#x20;
    * No change: Same as underlying frontage requirements&#x20;
    * Potential changes:&#x20;
      * If detached is allowed, frontage requirements are increased to x, x, and x feet&#x20;
* Principal building size
  * From State of Zoning for Accessory Dwelling Units&#x20;
* Principal building age (In State of Zoning for Accessory Dwelling Units)
  * For reference, policy options from Ella on age limit of the primary home:
    * No change: None&#x20;
    * Potential change: Must be at least 5 years&#x20;
* Parcel Land Use (including 2-family, 3-family, etc. housing)
* Principal building requirement
* ADU is already present
  * Permitted ADU is already present
  * Unpermitted ADU is already present
* Lot is non-conforming. If so, what dimensional requirements should we take into account? For reference, policy options from Ella on non-conforming properties:
  * No change: Yes, with a Special Permit&#x20;
  * Potential change: ?&#x20;
* Property owner eligibility. For reference, policy options from Ella on the eligibility of owners.
  * No change: Yes
  * Potential change:&#x20;
    * No&#x20;
