# 2-4. Excluding Polygons

**4c. Polygon geometry (buffered points or lines and/or polygons), that, if present above a certain percentage threshold, renders the parcel ineligible for an ADU.**&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
In contrast with the point geometry (Step 5a) and line geometry (Step 5b), which are <mark style="color:orange;background-color:blue;">\[</mark><mark style="color:orange;background-color:blue;"><mark style="color:orange;">Boolean exclusions]<mark style="color:orange;"></mark> in the tool (the presence of any point and any line on the parcel results in a parcel exclusion, no matter the feature count or type), the exclusions resulting from polygon geometry may vary depending on the feature coverage and/or type. For example, the tool can differentiate between an exclusion based on >25% coverage by steep slopes and an exclusion based on >50% coverage by wetlands.
{% endhint %}

1. Review the draft ADU Bylaw or Ordinance and identify the data layer(s) required to define all excluding coverage geometry. Retrieve and/or create the data layer(s).
2. If applicable, eliminate any features in the data layer(s) that should not result in a parcel exclusion.
3. If applicable, buffer all point and line geometries by the relevant distance to produce polygon geometries. As relevant, buffer the polygon geometries to expand them by the policy-mandated distance.
4. Export the resulting file(s) to ADUTool.gdb, with the naming structure "CG\_\[FeatureType]\_und\[CoverageLimit]pct." For example, if the policy under consideration excluded parcels with 25% of more coverage by steep slopes, the input file might be titled "CG\_Slopes\_und25pct."&#x20;
