# 2B. How much space is required for the parking associated with the ADU?

Citywide parking requirements and parking assumptions Data Services has used previously are in the Supporting Information section, under [Parking Requirements](../assumptions-and-policy/parking-requirements/).

### <mark style="background-color:orange;">Outstanding Questions (Copied to</mark> [<mark style="background-color:orange;">Proposed Next Steps</mark>](../proposed-next-steps.md)<mark style="background-color:orange;">)</mark>

* [ ] Will the ordinance define parking requirements for the ADU? If so, how many spaces? A partial list is below, under Factors We Could Explore.
* [ ] Are there any Beverly-specified parking requirements (minimum size, acceptable layout, etc.) that we should take into account?
* [ ] Are parking spaces allowable in parcel setbacks?

### Factors We Could Explore

* For reference, policy options from Ella on minimum buffers:&#x20;
  * No change: 1 parking space per ADU in the Depot Overlay District, 2 parking spaces per ADU everywhere else
  * Potential changes: &#x20;
    * None in some areas&#x20;
    * 1 in all areas (For reference, EEA's model bylaw suggests requiring 1 parking space per unit and considering a waiver when transit is accessible)
    * Allow on-street parking in lieu of off-street parking&#x20;
    * 1 in some areas, 2 in other areas&#x20;

### Possible Options for Analysis

* Option 1: There is no field in the parcel data that reflects the number of on-site parking spaces, however, we could approximate this by dividing `sqm_pave` by an estimate of parking space size. If we're doing this, we should also evaluate parking spaces in each garage (Attached, Detached, Basement.)&#x20;
* Option 2 (Recommended): Assume that every parcel will need additional parking spaces for the ADU.
