# Interpretation

The Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Analytical Tool estimates which parcels in a municipality meet specified criteria for ADU eligibility, and are therefore _potential_ candidates for ADU creation. In this way, the ADU Tool equips municipal staff, their partners, and the communities they serve with a means to evaluate the number and distribution of parcels likely eligible for ADU development under current or proposed ADU policies.

In interpreting the results of the tool, we would highlight three key points:&#x20;

* The results of the tool are estimates, subject to the quality of the input data and the key assumptions enumerated in the [Analysis](broken-reference) sections. The tool does not account for special conditions, unmapped features, or creative design that may affect eligibility.&#x20;
* The tool doesn't account for the full range of criteria that may be established for ADU eligibility, especially those that can't be mapped or associated with specific parcels.&#x20;
* These are estimates of eligible parcels, not the number of ADUs likely to be be built. Only a small fraction of eligible property owners will choose to pursue an ADU. Even under ideal conditions, adoption rates are not likely to exceed 1% per year, so achieving that "buildout" estimate will take more than 100 years.

<mark style="background-color:green;">Planners working on the Beverly ADU Ordinance Update found it helpful to discuss the results of the tool with the public in percentage terms, for example, "X% of residential parcels are eligible for ADU development. If all of these property owners pursue ADU development, the number of housing units would increase by Y%; if 1 out of every 100 eligible property owners pursues ADU development, the number of housing units would increase by Z%." This framing contextualizes the results, which generally yields more productive conversations. Planners also found visual aids, such as pie charts, to be helpful in communicating their findings.</mark>

#### ADU Adoption Rates

As part of our development of the ADU Tool, MAPC sought out information on ADU adoption rates, defined as the share of eligible property owners who pursue ADU development in a given year. One resource we turned to was, "[The State of Zoning for Accessory Dwelling Units](https://ma-smartgrowth.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/ADU-MSGA-Pioneer-paper-2018.pdf)," which was written by Amy Dain in 2018. This paper discusses ADU zoning policies in the 101 cities and towns in the MAPC region and includes a section with counts of ADU permits in 2015, 2016, and 2017. In the three dozen municipalities that reported ADU production, the vast majority were seeing fewer than half a dozen permits a year, if any at all; only three towns reported more than ten permits in any of the three years, and the maximum in any reported year was 15. Dain's findings demonstrate that (legal) ADU adoption in Greater Boston remains exceedingly rare. Without more information about how many properties were eligible in each municipality, it's not possible to calculate an adoption rate, per se, though one can assume it is very small. &#x20;

To learn about adoption rates in localities with more permissive ADU policies and more widespread uptake, MAPC looked to Portland, OR, and Seattle, WA. The City of Seattle generously shared a set of spatial data with ADU criteria that could be read into our ADU Tool. Using their published construction numbers and our approximation of their eligible parcels, MAPC determined that in the three years following the City's ADU Ordinance Update, approximately 1% of eligible Seattle property owners constructed an ADU. This could be considered a potential upper bound for adoption rates, though much lower rates are much more likely. MAPC recommends that if users would like to estimate annual ADU production, they should do so using multiple scenarios ranging from 0.1% (very slow adoption) to 0.5% (robust adoption) to 1.0% (very high rate).&#x20;

<mark style="background-color:green;">Not many financial tools are available for ADU Development at this time, which is a major limitation, as a conversion of an existing space or structure to an ADU costs approximately $100,000 and the construction of a new, detached ADU costs approximately $200,000.</mark>
